Tuition and financial aid | Admission | ASU Skip to main content Report an accessibility problem ASU Home My ASU Colleges and Schools Sign In Search Admission Home Info for Admission Info Apply First-Year Student Transfer Graduate International Parents Counselors Veterans ASU Online Academics Academics Majors and Degrees Schools and Colleges Barrett, the Honors College Success and Results Cost and Aid Cost and Aid First-year Student from Arizona First-year Student from Another State Transfer from Arizona Transfer from Another State Graduate International Veteran Online Western Undergraduate Exchange School of Medicine Campus Life ASU Student Life Campuses Get Involved Health and Wellness Housing and Dining Metro Phoenix Resources Visit Visit ASU Walking Tours On-Demand Virtual Tours Campus Fit Quiz What to Expect for Your On-Campus Visit Contact Undergraduate Graduate Veterans FAQs Contact Us Apply Request info Your browser does not support the video tag. Play hero video Pause Tuition and financial aid Paying for college with financial aid Financial aid is money or funding that can help you cover college-related expenses such as: Tuition. Books. Course fees. Most students are eligible for some form of financial aid no matter what their family's income. Federal financial aid can include: Pell grants. Scholarships. Loans. Work-study. The Free Application for Federal Student Aid All students should complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid each year to find out how much federal financial aid they are eligible for. Learn more including deadlines and how to submit the FAFSA . In addition to completing the FAFSA to obtain federal financial aid, you can also seek out other forms of aid, such as scholarships, using ASU's Scholarship Universe. To see the total cost of attendance, visit tuition.asu.edu/cost . Top 10 in the U.S. for Best Colleges for Your Tuition Dollars ASU ranks No. 8 in the U.S. among public universities in the Best Colleges for Your Tuition (and Tax) Dollars ranking, ahead of UCLA, Wisconsin and Illinois. – Washington Monthly, 2025 ASU graduates are among the world's most employable A survey of international employers ranks ASU No. 2 in the U.S. for employable graduates among public universities  — ahead of UCLA, University of Michigan and Purdue. GEURS rates employability performance on key employability drivers: specialization, graduate skills, academic performance, focus on work expertise, social impact and leadership, and internationality. – Global Employability University Ranking & Survey, 2026 Tuition and financial aid by student type College costs and financial aid can vary by student type. Determine your student profile below to get a more detailed look at what your costs and aid may look like. First-year student from Arizona I am a resident of Arizona, have graduated from a regionally accredited high school or have a GED, and have never attended college or have fewer than 12 transferable credit hours. In person Online First-year student from another state I am a resident of a state other than Arizona, have graduated from a regionally accredited high school, and have completed fewer than 12 transferable college credits post-high school. In person Online Transfer student from Arizona I am a resident of Arizona, have more than 24 transferable credits from another college or completed an associate degree or higher, or have completed an Arizona General Education Curriculum. In person Online Transfer student from another state I am a resident of a state other than Arizona, have more than 24 transferable credits from another college, or completed an associate degree or higher. In person Online Graduate student I have completed a bachelor’s degree or higher from a regionally accredited university in the U.S. or an equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an international institution. In person Online International student I am currently not a citizen, permanent resident or a refugee in the United States of America. In person Online Military-connected or veteran student I am currently active military, a veteran, or a military spouse or dependent, and a newly admitted first-year, transfer or graduate student at ASU. In person Online School of Medicine student I am a U.S. citizen or permanent resident with a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution from the U.S. or Canada or I have a graduate degree or completed a postbaccalaureate program from a regionally accredited institution from the U.S. or Canada. In person Students share tips on paying for college When it comes to paying for college, everyone’s story is different. Whether grants, loans, work-study or other aid programs, see how students fund their education, then check out some of the financial awards you could be eligible for and consider what works for you. Frequently asked questions about cost and aid at ASU How much does it cost to go to college? The cost of going to college varies widely. Factors that can affect your cost of going to college include the tuition rate of the college you attend, whether it’s an in-state or out-of-state school, whether you live on campus, and what kind of financial aid package you receive. To get a good idea of what you can expect to pay at ASU, try our Net Price Calculator . Who is eligible to receive financial aid? Almost everyone is eligible to receive financial aid. If you think your family’s income is too high to qualify for financial aid, you might be surprised. And many scholarships are available, not only for students with financial need or with good grades, but also for students with special talents, interests or characteristics. It’s worth the time it takes to apply for any and all financial aid that you are eligible to receive. Do I need to be admitted to a college before I can apply for financial aid? Some forms of financial aid do not require you to be admitted to a college before you apply for the aid and others do. You can submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid before you are admitted to a college to find out what you are eligible to receive in federal grants, work-study and loans. Other forms of aid, such as ASU’s New American University Scholarship, require you to be admitted to the university before you can be considered for an award. What are the eligibility criteria for getting federal financial aid? To qualify for federal financial aid, you must meet several eligibility criteria including being a U.S. citizen or eligible noncitizen, having a valid Social Security number and demonstrating financial need. What is work-study? Federal Work-Study is a federally funded program for students with financial need in which they can work to help pay for college. Students who qualify for Federal Work-Study do not automatically get placed in a job. They must apply for and be hired in a Federal Work-Study position before they can start receiving money for college. What is merit aid? Merit aid is aid that you receive based on things you do such as your academic performance, athletic skills or artistic accomplishments. ASU offers merit scholarships, including for outstanding academic performance. The New American University Scholarship has a range of award values, and you’ll be automatically considered for it upon admission to the university. View more FAQs Admission Facebook Social Media Icon Admission X / Twitter Social Media Icon Admission Instagram Social Media Icon Admission YouTube Social Media Icon Arizona State University is a top-ranked research university in the greater Phoenix metropolitan area. Report a website problem Support ASU First-year Students Overview Steps and Requirements Cost and Aid Nondegree First-year Readmission Visiting University Students Contact Your Rep Transfer and Second Bachelor Students Overview Steps and Requirements Cost and Aid Transferring Credits Pathway Programs Contact Your Rep Graduate Students Overview Steps and Requirements Cost and Aid Resources Nondegree Graduate Admitted Students Contact Your Rep International Students Steps and Requirements Student Visa Orientation Contact Your Rep Maps and Locations Jobs Directory Contact ASU My ASU Copyright and Trademark Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Emergency Manage my privacy settings